Explain how to optimize release builds (#1538)
bevyengine/bevy-website: content/learn/quick-start/getting-started/setup.md

Fortunately, there is a simple fix, and we don't have to give up our fast iterative compiles! Add the following to your `Cargo.toml`:

```toml
# Enable a small amount of optimization in debug mode.
[profile.dev]
opt-level = 1

> # Enable a large amount of optimization in debug mode for dependencies.

Reviewer: I prefer the old one tbh

Author: Maybe. I wanted it to parallel the previous comment so the differences are obvious, and "including Bevy" should be trivially implied?

Reviewer: If both of you prefer the new one, let's take that :)

[profile.dev.package."*"]
opt-level = 3
```

You might think to simply develop in release mode instead, but we recommend against this as it can worsen the development experience by slowing down recompiles and disabling helpful debug symbols and assertions.

> In fact, you may want to optimize your release builds even further by adding the following to your `Cargo.toml`:

Reviewer: The "In fact" sounds like it has something to do with the last sentence, which it does not. Maybe "When actually building in release mode to ship your game"?

Author: It is meant to be related to the previous sentence, like "not only are compile times worse in release mode, but we actually want to make the compile times _even worse_ for better performance".

Author: ```suggestion
In fact, you may want to trade even more compile time in your release builds for performance by adding the following to your `Cargo.toml`:
```

> In fact, you may want to optimize your release builds even further by adding the following to your `Cargo.toml` as well:

Author: ```suggestion
In fact, you may want to optimize your release builds even further by adding the following to your `Cargo.toml`:
```

```toml

> # Enable additional optimization in release mode at the cost of compile time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Enable additional optimizations in release mode at the cost of compile time.
```

[profile.release]
lto = "thin"

> codgen-units = 1

Author: ```suggestion
codegen-units = 1
```

# Optimize for size in wasm-release mode.
[profile.wasm-release]

> inherits = "release"
> opt-level = "z"
> strip = "debuginfo"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Use release profile as default values
inherits = "release"

# Optimize with size in mind, also try "s", sometimes it is better.
# This doesn't increase compilation times compared to -O3, great improvements
opt-level = "z"

# Do a second optimization pass removing duplicate or unused code from dependencies.
# Slows compile times, marginal improvements
lto = "fat"

# When building crates, optimize larger chunks at a time
# Slows compile times, marginal improvements
codegen-units = 1

# String all debugging information from the binary
strip = "debuginfo"
```
From https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/tree/main/examples#optimizing

Author: `codegen-units = 1` is implied by `inherits = "release"`, and I don't think `lto = "fat"` should actually be preferred over `lto = "thin"` tbh.

Reviewer: You're right for the `codegen-units`, you're right. For the LTO I have no clue, but I want the two sources to at least match. I suppose we can remove the part in [bevyengine/bevy@main/examples#optimizing](https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/tree/main/examples?rgh-link-date=2024-07-05T21%3A06%3A32Z#optimizing) and just link the website instead?

Author: Update: Added some of these comments. Also improved some of the comments here. Agreed that the two sources should match, though.

Author: Gonna mark this suggestion resolved. The other source should be updated, which will need to be a separate PR because it lives in another repo.

> [profile.release]
> lto = "thin"
> codegen-units = 1
> 
> # Optimize for size in wasm-release mode.
> [profile.wasm-release]
> inherits = "release"
> opt-level = "z"
> strip = "debuginfo"

Author: ```suggestion
[profile.release]
# Enable more optimizations by compiling the entire crate as one unit.
# Slows compile times, marginal improvements.
codegen-units = 1
# Do a second optimization pass over the entire program, including dependencies.
# Slows compile times, marginal improvements.
lto = "thin"

# Optimize for size in wasm-release mode.
[profile.wasm-release]
# Use release profile as default values.
inherits = "release"
# Optimize with size in mind (also try "s", sometimes it is better).
# This doesn't increase compilation times compared to -O3, great improvements.
opt-level = "z"
# Strip all debugging information from the binary to reduce file size.
strip = "debuginfo"
```

```

> Then when releasing for web, you can pass `--profile wasm-release` to `cargo` instead of `--release`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When releasing for web, you can pass `--profile wasm-release` to `cargo` instead of `--release`.
```

Fortunately, there is a simple fix, and we don't have to give up our fast iterative compiles! Add the following to your `Cargo.toml`:

```toml
# Enable a small amount of optimization in debug mode.
[profile.dev]
opt-level = 1

# Enable a large amount of optimization in debug mode for dependencies.
[profile.dev.package."*"]
opt-level = 3
```

You might think to simply develop in release mode instead, but we recommend against this as it can worsen the development experience by slowing down recompiles and disabling helpful debug symbols and assertions.

In fact, you may want to trade even more compile time for performance in release mode by adding the following to your `Cargo.toml`:

```toml
# Enable additional optimizations in release mode at the cost of compile time.
[profile.release]
# Enable more optimizations by compiling the entire crate as one unit.
# Slows compile times, marginal improvements.
codegen-units = 1
# Do a second optimization pass over the entire program, including dependencies.

> # Slows compile times, marginal improvements.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Slightly slows compile times, marginal improvements.
```

lto = "thin"

> # Optimize for size in wasm-release mode.

Author: ```suggestion
# Optimize for size in wasm-release mode to reduce load times and bandwidth usage on web.
```

[profile.wasm-release]
# Use release profile as default values.
inherits = "release"
# Optimize with size in mind (also try "s", sometimes it is better).
# This doesn't increase compilation times compared to -O3, great improvements.
opt-level = "z"
# Strip all debugging information from the binary to reduce file size.
strip = "debuginfo"
```

When releasing for web, you can pass `--profile wasm-release` to `cargo` instead of `--release`.

> 

Author: ```suggestion

## Advanced Wasm optimizations

[Binaryen](https://github.com/WebAssembly/binaryen) is a Wasm compiler toolchain
that provides a `wasm-opt` CLI tool for making `.wasm` files smaller and faster:

```sh
wasm-opt -Oz --output output.wasm input.wasm
\```

Note that `wasm-opt` runs very slowly, but it can make a _big_ difference, especially
in combination with the optimizations from the previous section.

See the following for more info on optimizing Wasm:

- <https://rustwasm.github.io/book/reference/code-size.html>
- <https://rustwasm.github.io/docs/wasm-bindgen/reference/optimize-size.html>
- <https://rustwasm.github.io/book/game-of-life/code-size.html>
```

```toml
# Enable additional optimizations in release mode at the cost of compile time.
[profile.release]
# Enable more optimizations by compiling the entire crate as one unit.
# Significantly slows compile times, marginal improvements.
codegen-units = 1
# Do a second optimization pass over the entire program, including dependencies.
# Slightly slows compile times, marginal improvements.
lto = "thin"

# Optimize for size in wasm-release mode to reduce load times and bandwidth usage on web.
[profile.wasm-release]
# Use release profile as default values.
inherits = "release"
# Optimize with size in mind (also try "s", sometimes it is better).
# This doesn't increase compilation times compared to -O3, great improvements.
opt-level = "z"
# Strip all debugging information from the binary to reduce file size.
strip = "debuginfo"
```

When releasing for web, you can pass `--profile wasm-release` to `cargo` instead of `--release`.

## Advanced Wasm optimizations

[Binaryen](https://github.com/WebAssembly/binaryen) is a Wasm compiler toolchain
that provides a `wasm-opt` CLI tool for making `.wasm` files smaller and faster:

```sh
wasm-opt -Oz --output output.wasm input.wasm

> \```

Author: ```suggestion
```
```

Note that `wasm-opt` runs very slowly, but it can make a _big_ difference, especially
in combination with the optimizations from the previous section.

> See the following for more info on optimizing Wasm:

Author: ```suggestion
See the following for more information on optimizing Wasm:
```

- <https://rustwasm.github.io/book/reference/code-size.html>
- <https://rustwasm.github.io/docs/wasm-bindgen/reference/optimize-size.html>

> - <https://rustwasm.github.io/book/game-of-life/code-size.html>

Author: ```suggestion
- <https://rustwasm.github.io/book/game-of-life/code-size.html>

```

Fortunately, there is a simple fix, and we don't have to give up our fast iterative compiles! Add the following to your `Cargo.toml`:

```toml
# Enable a small amount of optimization in debug mode.
[profile.dev]
opt-level = 1

# Enable a large amount of optimization in debug mode for dependencies.
[profile.dev.package."*"]
opt-level = 3
```

You might think to simply develop in release mode instead, but we recommend against this as it can worsen the development experience by slowing down recompiles and disabling helpful debug symbols and assertions.

In fact, you may want to trade even more compile time for performance in release mode by adding the following to your `Cargo.toml`:

```toml

> # Enable additional optimizations in release mode at the cost of compile time.

Author: ```suggestion
# Enable more optimizations in release mode at the cost of compile time.
```

[profile.release]

> # Enable more optimizations by compiling the entire crate as one unit.

Author: ```suggestion
# Compile and optimize the entire crate as one unit.
```

# Significantly slows compile times, marginal improvements.
codegen-units = 1
# Do a second optimization pass over the entire program, including dependencies.
# Slightly slows compile times, marginal improvements.
lto = "thin"

# Optimize for size in wasm-release mode to reduce load times and bandwidth usage on web.
[profile.wasm-release]
# Use release profile as default values.
inherits = "release"
# Optimize with size in mind (also try "s", sometimes it is better).
# This doesn't increase compilation times compared to -O3, great improvements.
opt-level = "z"
# Strip all debugging information from the binary to reduce file size.
strip = "debuginfo"
```

When releasing for web, you can pass `--profile wasm-release` to `cargo` instead of `--release`.

> ## Advanced Wasm optimizations

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Advanced WASM optimizations
```

(Nit) I usually fully capitalize WASM, but I won't block on it. :)

Author: I thought so too, but https://webassembly.org/ said otherwise! :astonished:

Reviewer 2: Huh, good to know!
